#summary HOWTO Install the TalisLMS Connector.

= Introduction =

This will attempt to walk you through installing the TalisLMS Connector


= Option 1 =

*Installing from the .war file*

This (theoretically) should be the simplest approach.

Drop the .war file into however you generally deploy Java webapps (you probably have a /webapps directory somewhere in your servlet container tree).

In the home directory of the user account that your servlet engine is running, cd (or mkdir) ~/.grails and copy [http://talislms-jangle.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/TalisLMSConnector/grails-app/conf/jangleConfig.groovy-dist this file] to it, edit as necessary and rename it to _jangleConfig.groovy_.

= Option 2 =

*Installing from source*

This (theoretically) should keep you up to date with the latest changes.  Since the TalisLMS Connector is a fairly swiftly moving target, this is the best way to ensure you have the most functionality.

Pull the TalisLMS Connector sources from SVN:
[http://code.google.com/p/talislms-jangle/source/checkout Follow the directions here]

Install Grails version 1.1.1:
[http://www.grails.org/Installation Follow the installation instructions]

In the home directory of the user account that your servlet engine is running, cd (or mkdir) ~/.grails and copy [http://talislms-jangle.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/TalisLMSConnector/grails-app/conf/jangleConfig.groovy-dist this file] to it, edit as necessary and rename it to _jangleConfig.groovy_.

From here you can cd into your TalisLMSConnector directory (that was created from SVN) and run:

grails run-app

To get a basic implementation in Jetty running on port 8080

or

grails war

To compile a .war file.  If you go this route, after compiling, follow the instructions in Option 1.